PAUL LEWIS: Hello, and welcome
to the very first diary entry
thing-- I think.
So today was actually
the first day
I actually started coding
on the Dev Summit website.
And actually, it's
been a pretty good day.
I took the stuff
that we did last week
in the supercharged live
stream-- which was servers,
doing the server-side
rendering, because I
know I'm going to do a bunch
of server-side rendering
for the Chrome Dev
Summit website.
What I need to do is I need
to-- in the next time I
record one of these,
I'll show you the designs
as well so you know
where I'm headed.
For now, I just know I've got
to get infrastructure setup.
So I figure I'll show you
a little bit around what
I've got going on,
which, as it happens,
will involve looking at
me having written the word
"index," apparently.
That's as far as I got today.
OK.
I've done more than that.
Let me jump across to the code.
So mostly, mostly,
mostly, mostly, we
have a travis.yml file set up.
What I've got is, this
is a bunch of stuff
to download and actually
host the App Engine thing.
I'm also installing Lighthouse
because it's a progressive web
app, or it's going to be one.
I want to make sure that I'm
doing the progressive wep
appy things.
And that's exactly what
Lighthouse can do for me.
So I have Lighthouse.
It then gets a copy of Chrome.
It starts that up.
And then I basically
ask it to run Lighthouse
against the Dev Summit site.
And then I basically do a bit
of a quick validation, which
I will show you is in here.
And all I'm really doing
is I open up the JSON file
that Lighthouse is spitting out.
And then I have
a look through it
and basically look at the
progressive web app bits.
And I just add it
up and divide it.
And if I'm below 0.8,
I just fail the build.
And because I've got a manifest
in there, which I'll show you,
and because I've
got a service worker
in there, which I'll show
you, I should be mostly OK.
It will only be if I
break something like that
or if I have a performance
regression maybe-- actually,
no, that won't be
caught-- I should add
that in-- that it will throw.
So that was basically that.
And then most of
the day has actually
gone into the Python stuff.
And it apparently
wants me to install.
Go away.
Right, which mostly is this.
Anything that's Dev Summit
slash whatever, I pick up
and in the GET-- here
we are-- I basically
look at the URL and grab
whatever I think it is,
which is like if
it's a static file,
I basically grab
that file directly.
Which you can see is--
oh, actually it just
assumes that it's a
straight one to one match.
And I set those to
cache for a year.
And then if it's
not a static file,
so it doesn't begin with
/static, then I basically,
the moment I serve up
the single index HTML--
which is almost certainly going
to change to be per section,
but it's fine right now-- and
I set the HTML to not cache.
So while static files
are caching for a year,
public no cache on the HTML
means that the HTML will always
be revalidated.
And I'll come back to
the hashing in a moment.
And then, if it's
the service worker,
even though I serve it up
from static scripts-- sw.js--
I want it to appear at
/devsummit so that it can scope
and control that whole thing.
So that all is working.
Actually, let me show you it
over here on the Network tab,
run that.
Da da-- Dev Summit is--
there's the thing, headers.
It's got an ETag, which I also
set further down in the script.
Public, no cache, which
is exactly what I wanted.
And then there's a
javascript file which
has the max age of a year.
That is pretty
much what I wanted.
And you'll notice, by the way,
that there's this big long hash
in the file name.
And that is because if it's
going to cache it for a year,
I need a way to invalidate it.
And if it's always
called, like, cds.js, then
that's not going to
work out because even
if I update the file, it will
still use the old cached one.
So I use hashing to make
sure that, if the file
contents change, the HTML will
get a different path in it.
And then it will basically cause
the file to be redownloaded,
which I do in here.
The footer, you can see
me actually doing it.
I basically take the path
that I'm actually interested
and I pass it through a
filter called "add hash,"
which is in the Python.
There we are.
And that basically reads
through the file, updates
the hash with a SHA 256,
and then substitutes it
into the file.
So you get cds.blah
blah blah .js.
Not blah blah
blah, what is that?
And then on the other side,
we basically remove it.
So that goes back down
to cds.js or whatever
the file is that I'm
actually interested in.
So that means that I've got
kind of built in hashing,
which is working just great.
So if I change
files, they update.
The last thing I was
going to show you,
I do have a couple
of started things.
One is the manifest.json,
which is already
filled out with all the
Chrome Dev Summit stuff,
which is good.
And also the service worker,
which is the lightest weight
service worker that
you can pretty much do,
which skips waiting.
When it gets activated,
it claims all clients
and on fetch, it
responds with a fetch
of whatever you asked for.
So it's kind of
like a pass-through.
And I've done this
mostly because I
wanted to get the
Lighthouse score high enough
that it would fail the build
if there was a regression.
So it's kind of
like a pass-through.
And I discovered a Chrome
bug in the process.
I should show you the
Chrome bug, right?
Do you want to see
the Chrome bug?
All right.
Let me show you the Chrome bug.
I think it's crbug.com 648208.
That's a guess.
I got the ID right!
I only did that-- ah!
Basically-- there's a siren.
There's a siren outside.
That's London.
Right.
I basically discovered
that, if you set a page
to be offline in Dev
Tools, and then you
make a request that goes
via a service worker,
the service worker will still
be treated as online, even
if Dev Tools is set to offline.
I think that's a bit weird.
I think either Chrome should say
that network throttling affects
only the page and not
anything like a service worker
or-- and this would
be my preference,
I think-- we extend
the network throttling
to include service workers.
So even if a service
worker makes a request,
it would be requested with 3G.
Problem is a service worker
can service multiple tabs.
And so which one does it take?
I don't know.
It caught me out.
I filed a bug.
We'll see how that one pans out.
So that's pretty
much my day today.
That has been pretty much all
I got done, still pretty good.
I mean, I could show you
in Lighthouse-- we'll
save that for another time.
I've already taken up
enough of your time.
I'm going to-- eh?
Now, you can subscribe and
you'll get more of these.
And obviously, it's going
to get more exciting
as we get into the zone.
But I've got good
start, got good caching,
have a service worker,
got a manifest.
And I've got a
Travis file in there
to do all the buildy type
stuff with Lighthouse.
So we're off to a good start.
Day one, winning.